# Docker intro

Docker is a tool to store, create and keep containers, which can store different services isolated from the host OS and also isolating processes. In a nutshell docker is a lightweight alternative to WM, because it do not create a whole WM that connects directly to hardware, it only makes possible running only isolated systems.

It also saves time and effort when configuring some infrastructure around code like installing and configuring servers or databases, it also saves costs with servers if each layer of infrastructure is onto a server. If your application is divided in different layers and you need it to work in different environments, manually configuration could lead to different versions of infrastructure running on different computers, which could be a potential disaster.

Docker works based on virtualization, which could be of two different types: Bare metal, that is installed directly into Host OS and puts more pressure into the  system, although have a total isolation; Hosted, that only shares some parts of the kernel, which puts less presure into the Host OS.

## Linux Kernel
**Cgroups (control groups):** Allows Docker to share Host OS resources and define some restrictions and limits.

**Namespaces:** Isolates different Process Groups, from OS Host or from other containers processes. Namespaces are created when a new container is created, and they:
  - Isolates processes;
  - Control network interfaces;
  - Control InterProcess Communication;
  - Control mounting points;
  - Kernel resources;

**Union Filesystems:** File systems very lightweight ans fast used by Docker to create images, which are used to create containers.
